# \<nebula-validate\>

`<nebula-validate>` is a custom element that provides form and data validation using [Validate.js](https://validatejs.org/). It provides an easy but extensible way to implement form and other types of data validation.

## Import

```html
<link rel="import" href="/bower_components/nebula-validate/nebula-validate.html">
```

## Usage

Add the element.

```html
<nebula-validate
  id="validator"
  data="[[data]]"
  auto-validate
  delay=300
  constraints="[[constraints]]"
  errors="{{errors}}"
  format="grouped">
</nebula-validate>
```

## API Reference

### Properties

#### autoValidate : boolean *default=false*

Indicates if data is validated when changed. To improve performance when validating form data that is being updated on input, auto validation can be debounced by setting the `delay` property.

The property is disabled by default. To perform validation manually, call the `validate` method on the element. This can be useful for toggling between form-level validation, and field-level validation for forms.

#### constraints : Object

Data is validated against constraints. The constraints property can specify one or more validation rules for a field. You can provide constraints using data binding. To generate dynamic constraints based on the data being validated, use a computed property. 

```js
static get properties() {
  return {
    constraints: {
      type: Object,
      readOnly: true,
      value: function() {
        return {
          email: {presence: true, email: true},
          password: {presence: true}          
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

The library includes a collection of built-in validators and errors messages. Error messages can be customized, and you can also define custom validators for validating single, or multiple fields. Constraints can also be specified for child objects.

> <i>For more information, see the [Validate.js](https://validatejs.org/#constraints) documentation.</i>

#### data : Object

The data to be validated.

#### delay : Number *default=0*

A debounce value to delay auto validation when the data is changed. This can be useful when auto validation is enabled, and data has been bound directly to input fields.

#### errors : Object *notify=true*

The errors generated by the last validation. The format of the errors data is defined by the `format` property.

#### format : String *default=grouped*

The format option for errors (grouped, flat or detailed). The default format is **grouped**, which stores errors as an object containing an array of errors for each field keyed by the fieldname. If format is set to **flat**, the errors property will contain an array of error messages. Lastly, the **detailed** format will store validation errors as an array of verbose information related to each validation failure.

### Methods

#### validate() : boolean

### Events

#### validated : CustomError

Event triggered when validation has been performed.
